GPUs are one of the most valuable resources in the world as they are a critical hardware component to power AI. As a data scientist at Microsoft AI, you will be tasked with helping us to maximize our GPU utilization while solving real issues in the AI frontier. Are you passionate about solving the most interesting and challenging AI questions of our time? Our vision is bold and broad — to build systems that have true artificial intelligence across agents, applications, services, and infrastructure. It’s also inclusive: we aim to make AI accessible to all — consumers, businesses, developers — so that everyone can realize its benefits.

Microsoft AI (MAI) is seeking an experienced Data Scientist to help build the next wave of capabilities of our personal AI, Copilot. Please apply if you possess technical prowess, a methodical – data driven – approach to problem solving, and a mastery of templating to architect solutions that stand the test of time. We highly value people who will bring an abundance of positive energy, empathy, and kindness to the team every day. The abuse prevention team is responsible for identifying instances of abuse within copilot and blocking or mitigating those instances. You will be a critical component to keeping copilot safe and productive for all. Microsoft’s mission is to empower every person and every organization on the planet to achieve more. As employees we come together with a growth mindset, innovate to empower others, and collaborate to realize our shared goals. Each day we build on our values of respect, integrity, and accountability to create a culture of inclusion where everyone can thrive at work and beyond.

Microsoft’s mission is to empower every person and every organization on the planet to achieve more. As employees we come together with a growth mindset, innovate to empower others, and collaborate to realize our shared goals. Each day we build on our values of respect, integrity, and accountability to create a culture of inclusion where everyone can thrive at work and beyond.

Starting January 26, 2026, MAI employees are expected to work from a designated Microsoft office at least four days a week if they live within 50 miles (U.S.) or 25 miles (non-U.S., country-specific) of that location. This expectation is subject to local law and may vary by jurisdiction.

Responsibilities

Drive product insights, opportunity analysis, and track metrics to support eRorts across Microsoft Copilot.
Drive new ways of instrumenting and measuring impact to evaluate new feature performance through experimentation. 
Define metrics and build basic data pipelines to enable A|B experimentation for new features and mitigating abusive users. 
Hands-on analysis of large volumes of telemetry data using various algorithms and tools including your own 
Articulate insights, storyboard with data and communicate to influence leadership and other key decision makers 
Find a path to get things done despite roadblocks to get your work into the hands of users quickly and iteratively. 
Enjoy working in a fast-paced, design-driven, product development cycle. 
Work collaboratively with our engineers, Product Managers, and marketing to take ambiguous projects that drive user growth, engagement, and retention. This includes identifying market opportunities, optimizing app flows and improving product features and proposing innovation solutions based on data. 
Embody our Culture and Values.

Qualifications

Required Qualifications:

Doctorate in Data Science, Mathematics, Statistics, Econometrics, Economics, Operations Research, Computer Science, or related field AND 1+ year(s) data-science experience (e.g., managing structured and unstructured data, applying statistical techniques and reporting results)
OR Master's Degree in Data Science, Mathematics, Statistics, Econometrics, Economics, Operations Research, Computer Science, or related field AND 3+ years data-science experience (e.g., managing structured and unstructured data, applying statistical techniques and reporting results) 
OR Bachelor's Degree in Data Science, Mathematics, Statistics, Econometrics, Economics, Operations Research, Computer Science, or related field AND 5+ years data-science experience (e.g., managing structured and unstructured data, applying statistical techniques and reporting results) OR equivalent experience. 
Preferred Qualification

Doctorate in Data Science, Mathematics, Statistics, Econometrics, Economics, Operations Research, Computer Science, or related field AND 3+ years data-science experience (e.g., managing structured and unstructured data, applying statistical techniques and reporting results)
OR Master's Degree in Data Science, Mathematics, Statistics, Econometrics, Economics, Operations Research, Computer Science, or related field AND 5+ years data-science experience (e.g., managing structured and unstructured data, applying statistical techniques and reporting results) 
OR Bachelor's Degree in Data Science, Mathematics, Statistics, Econometrics, Economics, Operations Research, Computer Science, or related field AND 7+ years data-science experience (e.g., managing structured and unstructured data, applying statistical techniques and reporting results) OR equivalent experience. 
Data Science IC4 - The typical base pay range for this role across the U.S. is USD $119,800.00 - $234,700.00 per year. There is a different range applicable to specific work locations, within the San Francisco Bay area and New York City metropolitan area, and the base pay range for this role in those locations is USD $160,200.00 - $261,000.00 per year.

Certain roles may be eligible for benefits and other compensation. Find additional benefits and pay information here:

https://careers.microsoft.com/us/en/us-corporate-pay

Data Science IC5 - The typical base pay range for this role across the U.S. is USD $142,800.00 - $274,800.00 per year. There is a different range applicable to specific work locations, within the San Francisco Bay area and New York City metropolitan area, and the base pay range for this role in those locations is USD $188,000.00 - $304,200.00 per year.

Certain roles may be eligible for benefits and other compensation. Find additional benefits and pay information here:

https://careers.microsoft.com/us/en/us-corporate-pay

This position will be open for a minimum of 5 days, with applications accepted on an ongoing basis until the position is filled.

Microsoft is an equal opportunity employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to age, ancestry, citizenship, color, family or medical care leave, gender identity or expression, genetic information, immigration status, marital status, medical condition, national origin, physical or mental disability, political affiliation, protected veteran or military status, race, ethnicity, religion, sex (including pregnancy), sexual orientation, or any other characteristic protected by applicable local laws, regulations and ordinances. If you need assistance with religious accommodations and/or a reasonable accommodation due to a disability during the application process, read more about requesting accommodations.